HEADQUARTERS, PYOTE ARMY AIR FIELD

Office of the Director of Training

Pyote, Texas

12 June 1945

SUBJECT: Ditching Procedure, B-29's with Four-Gun Turret

TO: All Holders of 2AF manuals 50-26, 50-27, 50-37, 50-43, 50-56 and
    100-7 Sec. IV

1. In accordance with 2AF Ltr. 50-36, 2 June 1945, the inclosed
procedures are effective immediately and will be inserted in all copies
of the above-listed manuals now in use or to be issued for use.

By order of Lt. Col. ZUMWALT:

<signature>

HENRY E. BERGSCHNEIDER,

Major, Air Corps,

Training Secretary.




(2AF Manuals 50-26, 50-27, 50-56, 50-37, 50-43, 100-7 Sec. IV. Rev 2
June 1945.)

DITCHING PROCEDURE

1. The first series of ditching positions for the B-29 were suggested by
the "BOEING AIRCRAFT COMPANY", manufacturers of the aircraft. These
positions were on trial, but were as logical as could be devised without
actual ditching experience. The Boeing procedure and its various
modifications have all been steps in the right direction. Changes have
been based on actual ditching experience and procedures set forth here
are results of all ditching experiences to date. They are not to be
considered permanent. As new ditching characteristics of the B-29 are
learned, they will be incorporated to assure the safest procedures
possible.

2. The importance of these approved methods cannot be stressed too
highly. Modifications in these procedures may NOT be made at the
discretion of the airplane commander.

3. Experience to date proves that ditching characteristics of the B-29
are superior to those of any other aircraft now used by the Army Air
Forces. The greatest factor in ditching is the airplane's buoyancy
qualities. The B-29 has demonstrated, even during mediocre ditchings,
that it will stay afloat for long periods and does not sink easily. On a
moderately successful ditching, the aircraft is apt to stay afloat for
at least ten (10) minutes and may float for several hours.

4. Ditching impacts are severe. Every precaution must be taken to pad
against impact in the ditching position. Parachute, cushions, clothing,
etc., will be used for this purpose. During impact the individual's head
must be well protected. The flak helmet will be worn only when the head
can be braced against something substantial. In all positions, the legs
should be flexed to absorb the effects of a sudden jar.

5. When injured crew members are aboard they will be put in the proper
positions and/or supported between the legs of other crew position. This
may be difficult, but it has proven successful on numerous occasions.

6. Ditching position practice, as a part of completed ditching drill, is
a "MUST" for all combat crews. Every step in ditching procedure must be
practiced and learned thoroughly by the entire crew as a unit, in order
to eliminate confusion. Practice it against time until the entire
process becomes second nature.

Paragraphs 7 through 91 are Ditching Procedure instructions for the
various B-29 crew positions. These are reproduced separately for
insertion in the applicable S.O.P.'s for these positions.

92. If time permits, take one or more parachutes from the ditched
aircraft. The silk can be used to catch rain water and the shrouds have
no end of use. The web belt, which supports the canteen, should be
buckled on after removal of flak vests.

93. Prior to ditching all escape hatches will be jettisoned or opened to
prevent jamming in the event that the fuselage accordions.

94. An important phase of crew cooperation is the estimation of time
remaining aloft and the position where the ditching will take place. The
most efficient Air-Sea Rescue Agency is only as efficient as the
cooperation it receives from crews in distress. The rescue agency must
get notification of the ditching and the position. Crews must practice
transmitting procedure until it becomes S.O.P. The engineer, with the
information available, will make an estimate as to the time remaining
aloft. This information will to passed to the navigator, who, on the
basis of the information supplied, will estimate the position of
ditching. The position will be given to the radio operator who will
transmit the information to personnel who can effect a rescue.

95. This system of cooperation will not always be applicable, but it is
a framework for crew cooperation.

EQUIPMENT:

96. Combat crews are subject to last-minute changes in aircraft.
Therefore, it is essential to standardize the location of emergency
equipment within the aircraft. Individual responsibility for the removal
of this equipment must also be fixed.

97. The locations of the emergency equipment are based on their
accessibility for the crews when in ditching position.

98. The later B-29 aircraft are equipped with the new modified E-2 raft.
This raft has its accessory kit lashed to the raft itself. The older
type utilizes the A-3 raft which stows the accessory kit in the airplane
proper.

CHANGES:

99. As new developments are made in the Air-Sea Rescue field, existing
procedures and equipment will be modified. Research in this field is
being conducted in the United States as well as in the theatres of
operation. The new information, as it becomes available, will to
disseminated to the units of the command via publications and by
Personal Equipment Officers.

                      ----------END----------

100. A combat crew thoroughly trained in procedures and equipment is a
crew with plenty of life assurance which may, one day, pay the largest
kind of dividend----HUMAN LIFE------.




[Transcriber's Note: On this page in the original, the "DITCHING
PROCEDURE" block shown below (items "a" through "i" and the two "NB"
items) was struck out with a large, red "X". Revised Radio Operator
ditching procedure instructions were provided on the subsequent page.]


                         B-29--11-MAN CREW

RADIO OPERATOR                                        DITCHING PROCEDURE

a. Acknowledge in turn: "RADIO OPERATOR DITCHING."

b. Remove parachute harness, flak suit and winter flying boots.

c. Transmit position, course, altitude, and ground speed as received
from Navigator on DF. Relay fix or bearings obtained to Navigator.

d. Give DF contact all data without waiting too long for answer.

e. Destroy classified material.

f. Continue to send emergency signals. On command, from Pilot to take
ditching position, screw down transmitter key.

g. Remain at Radio Operator's seat with safety belt fastened, resting
cushioned back and head against upper turret wall.

h. After airplane comes to rest, exit through astrodome.

i. Inflate life vest and proceed to right wing.

NB Get Gibson Girl (SCR578) out.

NB On two gun turrets seated on floor back against read of Engineer's
panel, or braced in seat.


                                                           CRASH LANDING

a. Sends position report obtained from Navigator.

b. Take sitting position on floor with back against Pilot's armor
plate. Squeeze in with Flight Engineer and brace foot across the aisle.
Pad with chute and cushion.

Exit: Pilot's (right) window. 2EX, Engineer's hatch.

Quick Crash: Lay on floor with feet against engineer's panel or ditching
position.


                                                                 BAILOUT

a. Destroy classified material etc.

b. Send position obtained from Navigator.

   Exit: 1st man out nose wheel well. 2EX, bomb-bay.




[Transcriber's Note: Two different pages were in the original for the
Radio Operator's Ditching Procedure. This is the second page.]


      2 June 1945    Emergency Procedure B-29    11 or 12 Man Crew

Radio Operator                                        Ditching Procedure

a. Acknowledge in turn. "RADIO OPERATOR DITCHING."

b. Remove parachute harness, flak suit, and winter flying boots. Wear
flying gloves if possible.

c. Destroy classified materials: Check IFF setting.

d. Continue to send emergency signals. On command of the Pilot, clamp
down transmitter key.

e. Lower the trailing antenna full length, watch current meter and
notify AC of height above water when it grounds. (100-110 feet)

f. Pocket remaining two smoke grenades or put in shirt front. Keep
grenades in cases.

g. Remain in position with safety belt fastened; facing aft, with back,
shoulders and head pressing against upper turret wall as close to center
as possible, cushioning back and head with parachutes, bracing legs
against bulkhead.

h. After forward movement of aircraft has ceased, pull both life raft
release handles.

i. Exit through astrodome to right life raft.

N.B. Set Gibson Girl (SCR 578) out.


Radio Operator                                             Crash Landing

a. Sends position report obtained from Navigator.

b. Take sitting position on floor with back against Pilot's armor
plate. Squeeze in with Flight Engineer and brace foot across the aisle.
Pad with chute and cushion.

Exit: Engineer's hatch. Secondary Exit: Pilot's window.


Radio Operator                                                   Bailout

a. Destroy classified material.

b. Send position obtained from Navigator.

Exit: Nose wheel well, 2nd. Secondary Exit: Bomb-bay.


Radio Operator                                                  Take-Off

a. Take-off position: In seat.

b. Procedure: Fasten safety belt. Face aft and brace head with hands
behind neck, shoulders and back against upper turret. If time permits,
remove astrodome prior to crash.

c. Exit: Remove parachute and exit through astrodome.




[Transcriber's note: To allow the information in the FUSE CHART to be
presented within page width restraints, the original table has been
reformatted into a multi-line format.]

              RADIO OPERATORS SUPER-FORTRESS FUSE CHART

RADIO SET
  FUSE RATING
  NUMBER AND LOCATION
  PURPOSE

274N COMMAND RECEIVER
  10 Amp.
  One active and one spare in each rec.
  In low V. line to dyn.

274N COMMAND MODULATOR
  20 Amp.
  2 active on right end of modulator and two spare on the left end
  In low V. line to dyn. in L.V. line to heaters.

348 LIAISON RECEIVER
  5 Amp.
  In the receiver proper.
  In L.V. line to dyn.

AN/ART-13 COLLINS TRANSMITTER.
  1 Amp.
  In dynamotor proper.
    Breaks H.V. line if press. relay fails.
  Two circuit breakers on the base of the Collins dyn.
    In L.V. input to dyn & L.V. input Xmitter.

269G or AN/ARN 7 RADIO COMP.
  5 Amp.
  One active and one spare in radio compass relay shield.
  Removes 115 V. 400 cycle from set.

RC-43 MARKER BEACON RECEIVER
  10 Amp.
  One active and one spare in radio compass relay shield.
  Removes L.V. from Radio Comp. & Marker Beacon.

RC-36-B Interphone
  15 Amp.
  1 active & 1 spare in radio comp. relay shld.
  In L.V. line to dyn.

AN/AIC-2 Interphone
  One circuit breaker somewhere near the amplifier.
  In L.V. line to dyn.

ANTENNA REEL
  10 Amp.
  Between bomb bays in fuse box #183
  Removes L.V. from motor.

ANTENNA REEL RELAY
  2 Amp.
  1 active & 1 spare in radio comp. relay shld.
  Removes L.V. from relay.

522 VHF COMMAND
  40 Amp.
  Fuse box #862 located on right side fire control room. May have reset
    switch instead.
  In L.V. line to dynamotor

595/695 IFF
  10 Amp.
  1 active & 1 spare in radio comp. relay shld.
  In L.V. line to dynamotor

RADIO OPERATORS SUIT
  20 Amp.
  Engineers Aft fuse panel.
  Removes power from suit.

RC 103 (B/L) BC-733-D Lateral receiver.
   10 Amp.
   One active and one spare in Junction Shield, fuse box #586 located
     behind A/C seat.
   In L.V. line to dynamotor

AN-ARN-5A (B/L) R-89/ARN-5A Vertical glide path receiver.
  10 amp circuit breaker
  On front of Junction Shield, (fuse box #586) behind A/C's seat.
  In L.V. input to the set. The set has no dynamotor.




Transcriber's notes:

    This is the ditching procedure specifically for a Radio Operator on
    a B-29.

    In item #93, "all excape hatches" changed to "all escape hatches".

    Correction in original to first ditching procedure, "BAILOUT"
    section, item "b.": "1st man out" (typed) changed to "2nd man out"
    (handwritten.)