PIONEER AUTO MUSEUM
                                  and
                              ANTIQUE TOWN


                          Murdo, South Dakota


PIONEER AUTO MUSEUM and A. J. “Dick” Geisler are a single thought in the
minds of many who have visited and had the chance to know the man with
the ever-present cigar. A Valentine present to German immigrant parents,
Dick knew he and the family farm were not cut out for each other. He
attended a rural school near New Ulm, Minnesota much like the one that
is part of the museum. After high school his mother’s plans for business
college for her son were interrupted by a job selling for the Jewel Tea
Company, and other sales ventures. In 1923 he and a friend drove a Ford
like the one to be seen in the Ford Garage from Minnesota to California
taking odd jobs along the way to finance the trip.

In California he met and married Vivian Petersen who had traveled to
California with her three sisters. The three Geisler children were born
in Pasadena where “Dick” was operating the feed, hardware and appliance
business he started in the height of the depression. In 1942 Mr. Geisler
traded his California home for a farm near Blunt, South Dakota, sold the
businesses and returned to the Midwest.

Crops had been nonexistent for some years prior to his move to South
Dakota and the natives were amused at the West coast city dude who
busily went about planting wheat. The Geisler touch and ideal conditions
brought about the first of many banner years for crops in the area.

In 1945 “Dick” bought a John Deere Chevrolet dealership in Murdo and
moved his family once again. In 1950 he opened the Phillips 66 gas
station at the junction of U.S. 16 and 83. The embryo of the PIONEER
AUTO MUSEUM took shape in the form of an old buggy and a 1913 Ford
Peddler’s Wagon (now located in the Ford Garage) which were parked in
front of the station and elicited considerable comment from tourists. As
the years rolled by a vintage car here and an antique there were added
to “Dick’s” small but growing collection. Dick’s son, John, made the
first trip to pick up a car back east. Upon returning, John told his
father about other cars to be had. By ones and twos the collection grew
to where something had to be done to properly store and show the cars.

                   Pub. by The Goin Company, Box 746
                      Mitchell, South Dakota 57301

                                MADE BY
                              DEXTER PRESS
                          WEST NYACK, NEW YORK

    [Illustration: Pioneer Auto Museum
    Murdo, South Dakota]

                         Buildings as Numbered
  1. Main building and entrance. Autos and coin music machines.
  2. Auto building.
  3. Autos, motorcycles and bicycles building.
  4. Auto storage shed.
  5. 1910 Cretors popcorn wagon.
  6. Souvenir and gift shop.
  7. World’s largest concert band organ.
  8. Church of the prairie.
  9. 1911 Parker Brothers merry-go-round.
  10. Henry’s Ford Garage.
  11. Livery stable.
  12. Classic car building.
  13. Auto building. (mainly Overland, Willys, Kaiser-Frazer)
  14. Machinery area.
  15. Tractor area.
  16. Fire station.
  17. Kozy Tourist Cabin.
  18. Depot. (display of stoves, dentist’s office, saloon)
  19. One-room school house.
  20. Milwaukee Road Caboose.
  21. General store.
  22. Circus display room.
  23. Restrooms.
  24. Jack’s Jewelry store.
  25. Homesteader’s shack.
  26. Murdo State Bank.
  27. Blacksmith Shop.
  28. Barber Shop.
  29. Murdo Jail.
  30. Gasoline engine and plow display.
  31. Wells Fargo stagecoach.
  32. Exit building. (Autos, style-show, glassware, antique toys,
          telephones, emblems, miscellaneous antiques and other items)
  33. Storage and restoration building. (closed to public)
  34. Auto and parts boneyard.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

    [Illustration: 1903 Cadillac

    With $750.00 you were in the driver’s seat of this gem in 1903. This
    first model made by the Cadillac Motor Car Co. of Detroit sported a
    single cylinder, under-the-floor mounted engine with a two speed
    transmission.]

    [Illustration: 1908 Brush

    This two passenger runabout was one of the popular models of its
    day. Built between 1907-1913, it had a wooden frame and wooden
    axles, coil springs on all four wheels and was chain driven. Its
    single cylinder 12 H.P. engine cranked counterclockwise. Sold new
    for $485.00. NOTE: The same man, Alanson P. Brush, designed the
    engines for both the Cadillac and Brush described on this page.]

    [Illustration: Long Green Car

    Long enough to be a 32 cylinder monstrosity, this 1926 Nash was
    especially built as an eye-catcher. In identifying the Pioneer Auto
    Museum, reference is often made to this car.]

    [Illustration: A Lineup of Old-Timers

    A sample of man’s mechanical genius found in the Pioneer Auto
    Museum. In this lineup, left to right, can be seen a Model T,
    Flanders, Spacke, and Schacht.]




                         Antiques of Yesteryear


ANTIQUE CARS

Wide variances of opinion exist as to what constitutes an antique car.
To those unknowledgeable in history of the automobile it is often merely
a relative description of an old car. The Veteran Motor Car Club of
America classifies any car over 35 years old as antique. The Antique
Automobile Club of America considers all pre-1930 models qualifying as
antiques. The Horseless Carriage Club limit their choices for antique
designation to pre-1916 cars. As we said, the term is somewhat relative.

    [Illustration: 1912 Chalmers

    This high-wheeled, 4 cylinder speedster is a fine example of an
    early sports car. In 1910 Chalmers won the Glidden Trophy.]

    [Illustration: 1909 Fuller

    In 1909 and 1910 two companies were producing autos with the Fuller
    name—The Angus Automobile Company of Angus, Nebraska and the Fuller
    Buggy Company of Jackson, Michigan. The inflatable tires identify
    this model as being made in Jackson, Michigan.]

    [Illustration: 1912 Cadillac

    This gleaming blue beauty must have brought joy to the heart of its
    first owner. The brass lamps and leather workings show great care.
    Note the early “bucket” seats.]

    [Illustration: 1906 “N” Ford

    This early model come off the line just three years after Henry Ford
    produced his first auto. It is the first car to be seen as you enter
    Henry’s Ford Garage.]

    [Illustration: 1902 Oldsmobile

    This curved dash Olds was powered by a single cylinder engine and
    steered with a tiller. It was the world’s first mass produced
    automobile.]

    [Illustration: 1902 Schacht

    A 1902 gem with double chain drive. This hard wheeler was one of the
    earlier models with a steering wheel. Note the hand crank in back
    for the rear-mounted motor.]

    [Illustration: 1917 Hupmobile Roadster

    Very few of this model are found today. This 4 cylinder roadster was
    capable of 45 miles an hour and sold for $1,265.00 new. What is now
    known as the antique era was rapidly coming to a close and many of
    the refinements of production efficiency can be noted on this car.]

    [Illustration: 1910 Flanders

    The Flanders was marketed by Studebaker and remained unchanged for
    the years of its manufacture, 1909-1912. It has a 4 cylinder engine
    and a 3 speed transmission. This model was noted for its
    mother-in-law seat, a single seat in the rear.]

    [Illustration: 1909 Auburn Touring

    If cars could speak, this particular Auburn could tell much of the
    early history and settling of Central South Dakota. It was used for
    many years to transport settlers to their claims, some a full day’s
    ride from Murdo. Fully restored in early 1971, it is now on
    display.]

    [Illustration: Autos On Review

    From left to right—1914 Ford Touring, 1917 Crow-Elkhart, 1913
    Hupmobile and a 1913 Ford Speedster.]




                           The Vintage Years


Following World War I cars that had remained drawing board dreams sprung
into reality. Faster production methods had evolved from the war and
were now applied to the auto industry. New techniques for making lighter
alloys were brought into use and new advances in the theory of the
internal combustion engine were tested and applied. The result was a
selection of autos superior to those of the previous period.

Production had passed from experiment to refinement. Efficiency was the
byword with great care given in the construction of each unit during
that post-war period. Mass production sounded the death knell for the
short-lived Vintage Years which, it is generally agreed, lasted from
1919 to 1930.

    [Illustration: 1922 Essex

    This Essex, manufactured by the Hudson Motor Car Company from
    1918-1932, was a low-priced, four cylinder car. However, it was very
    popular and was noted for its remarkable acceleration and top
    speed.]

    [Illustration: 1922 Star Touring

    Even the best of the Vintage Years autos had their bad moments.
    Experienced mechanics were few and far between in some parts of the
    country. Usually the local blacksmith could be depended upon for a
    piece of bailing wire and a fair repair job, as on this 1922 Star.]

    [Illustration: 1927 Willys-Knight

    Willys-Knight was most notable for its double-sleeve-valve engine.
    Purchase price for this model was $1,400.00.]

    [Illustration: 1922 Stutz Touring

    You were really “IN” back in the “Roaring 20’s” with this sporty
    wire-wheeled model. This is a blood-brother to the famous Stutz
    Bearcat of early sports car fame.]

    [Illustration: 1922 Mercer Touring

    The tour cylinder Mercer was one of the fastest cars of its day.
    Note the wire wheels and the two spare tires at the rear. All four
    doors opened from the inside only.]

    [Illustration: 1928 Paige-Detroit

    This six cylinder four door sedan was one of the last cars made by
    the Paige Company which merged with the Graham Brothers Company the
    next year forming the Graham-Paige Company. Notice the three-tone
    paint job.]

    [Illustration: Henry’s Ford Garage

    Henry’s Garage displays 18 early Fords from the 1906 Model “N”
    through the Model A”. A parts room duplicating the organized mess of
    the early Ford parts department and a display of tools used to work
    on these wonders which would go miles with baling wire or a hair pin
    holding them together.]

    [Illustration: 1913 Overland

    Mr. Geisler is sentimental about every car in his collection but
    this one has a special place in his heart. Can you remember the
    first car you ever drove?—Here is the first car Dick Geisler drove,
    now restored to prize winning condition. It was judged the finest
    example of restoration in 1963 and received a first place trophy at
    the national meet held by the Antique Automobile Club of America
    that year.]




                              Classic Cars


What does set apart a true classic from a standard production car? Two
things in principle: Brilliant and unusual design coupled with the most
advanced engineering of the day. Almost inseparable from these
attributes are two more basic factors: Superlative hand workmanship and
limited production. Some classics may excel in body design coupled to a
lesser standard of engineering or vice versa, but all the above
qualities are invariably found in a true classic.

    [Illustration: 1928 Cunningham

    James Cunningham & Sons manufactured finely made, luxury cars in
    Rochester, N.Y. between 1907 and 1936. This early example of the V-8
    engine produced 100 bhp at 2400 rpm. The Cunningham sold for up to
    $9,000.00. In 1970 a close-coupled convertible like this one was
    offered for $38,750.00. Early Cunningham enthusiasts included Mary
    Pickford, Marshall Field, William Randolph Hearst and Harold Lloyd.
    This car was driven for half its trip from Wisconsin to the PIONEER
    AUTO MUSEUM.]

    [Illustration: 1937 Cord

    This 810 Westchester Sedan was manufactured by Auburn Automobile
    Company. Only 2,320 cars of the 810 and 812 model Cord were made. It
    featured front wheel drive, Lycoming V-8 engine, retractable
    headlights and wrap-around grill. A 1937 supercharged model 812
    originally sold for $3,575.00. A supercharged Beverly Sedan is on
    display in another building.]

    [Illustration: 1931 Pierce-Arrow Convertible Coupe

    Headlights sweeping from the fenders in clean, flowing lines mark it
    as a Pierce-Arrow. Bore and stroke were 3½ × 5 inches with a piston
    displacement of 385 cubic inches developing 132 horsepower. Another
    unique feature was pairs of coils, points and condensers allowing
    the 8 cylinder engine to run on four cylinders should the ignition
    fail. Many other unique features of engineering and design mark the
    Pierce-Arrow as a true Classic.]

    [Illustration: 1932 Auburn Boattail Speedster

    This classic beauty manufactured by the Auburn Automobile Company
    between 1903-1937 was guaranteed to have been test driven at more
    than 100 mph. Auburn first began using the two-tone color scheme in
    1925. This yellow and red beauty came with a straight eight Lycoming
    engine rated at 150 H.P. This car was a first place winner at the
    national Auburn-Cord-Duesenberg meet a few years ago.]

    [Illustration: 1928 Packard Convertible Coupe

    This Packard has a straight eight engine, side-mounted spares, disc
    wheels, and a rumble seat. Two other Packards of this classic era,
    both four door phaetons, are also on display in the museum in the
    Classic Building.]




                         Special Interest Cars


To classify as a special interest car it should be distinguished either
by unusual body style, an engineering innovation or some other marked
difference from the routine production of its day. A few of the special
interest cars to be found in the PIONEER AUTO MUSEUM are shown here.

    [Illustration: ROONEY RACER

    The Mickey Rooney Racer was built especially for use in the movie
    “The Big Wheel.” It is powered by a motorcycle engine mounted in the
    rear. The car, bought in California, traveled cross country in its
    own tailor-made car top carrier.]

    [Illustration: 1957 Thunderbird

    The two-seater Thunderbird was built between 1955-1957. The one on
    display at the MUSEUM has an engine with 312 cubic inch
    displacement. The porthole top is detachable, secured by five clamps
    and a convertible top was optional. This car is driven regularly by
    John Geisler, and may be parked in front of the MUSEUM.]

    [Illustration: Kaiser Darrin Roadster DKF-16

    This true roadster manufactured by Willys Motors, Inc., boasts side
    curtains, hidden top, plexiglass wind wings, and sold for $3,668.00.
    The fibreglass body features doors that slide into front fender
    wells and an F head Willys engine. Of the 435 assembly line cars
    built only 226 are known to still exist. If you miss the car in the
    exhibit it is probably parked in front as it is driven regularly by
    Betty Geisler.]




                              Shucks Ma—“
                    Now I can work 40 acres a day!”


    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

The Indian stared in amazement, dogs and kids ran for cover and great
grandfather swelled with pride as he drove his new J. I. Case steam
engine across the prairie.

The mechanical age had really arrived as these and many other
smoke-belching behemoths rumbled across the plains of South Dakota years
ago. The “dirt farmer” came into his own, turning over as many as 40
acres of virgin sod a day. He was soon to be recognized as the most
important single factor in feeding a rapidly growing nation. Today’s
farmer, heir to yesterday’s pioneer efforts, finds his role even more
important. A hungry world constantly demanding a greater food supply
leans heavily on the American farmer’s ability to produce more and more.

The giants pictured here have long since retired. But South Dakota is
fortunate to have men of vision who have restored and maintained this
part of our heritage to see and enjoy now and for years to come.

    [Illustration: A Rumley Oil-Pull provides the power to drive one of
    the older threshing machines commonly seen in The wheat country of
    Central South Dakota. This steam powered behemoth provided belt
    drive to run the thresher.]

    [Illustration: An Aultman-Taylor kerosene powered tractor of
    yesteryear. Note the heavy chain behind the front wheels that
    provided the linkage for steering this giant. Typical of early
    equipment, it was all but silent until the drive train was engaged.
    No one was ever known to go to sleep at the switch.]

    [Illustration: Two views of the farm machinery lot at the back of
    the PIONEER AUTO MUSEUM. Dozens of tractors of all vintages are
    represented along with countless other pieces of farm equipment from
    days gone by.]

    [Illustration: no separate caption]




                              Antique Town


“Remember way back when—?” and, “When I was a boy I used to walk five
miles every day to a one room school back in—!” Here are reminders for
those who have made these statements or heard them from the folks. A
true turn-of-the-century main street. How different and complex are
these same things today!

    [Illustration: Two young ladies stand in front of the completely
    equipped barber shop. The other businesses appear to be closed for
    the day so one might guess father is still in the chair doing his
    part in a bit of close harmony.]

    [Illustration: A bank is a bank—unless it’s the one you have done
    business with for years and it is to be dismantled. It could be Mr.
    Geisler “rescued his rescuer” when he bought the old Murdo State
    Bank, teller windows, equipment, safe and all. This was the local
    world of finance fifty years ago.]

    [Illustration: Funerals, weddings and fancy occasions saw this
    “hack” put to use. This is only one of the many interesting things
    to see in the Livery Barn at PIONEER AUTO MUSEUM.]


Everything from barbed wire to groceries to clothing were on the shelves
at the old General Store. The coffee grinder, the cracker barrel and the
glowing pot-bellied stove are there to help your imagination run back
over the years.

    [Illustration: General store]

    [Illustration: General store shelves]

    [Illustration: General store shelves]

    [Illustration: Many a pioneer worshipped his Maker in this small
    country church rescued from abandonment and ultimate destruction. It
    is complete with hymnals, prayer books, altar and other original
    furnishings.]

    [Illustration: This authentic one-room school house is complete with
    books, desks, and Regulator wall clock.]

    [Illustration: Note the double desk and the old stove. Children of
    pioneer days walked or rode horseback for many miles each day to
    attend classes.]

    [Illustration: Made by Wurlitzer about 40 years ago, this is the
    world’s largest Concert Band Organ.]

    [Illustration: All visitors seem to enjoy climbing up to the cab of
    the old C.M & St. P. R.R. caboose. This old veteran of steam-driven
    railroad days was used when South Dakota was first homesteaded. It
    is completely furnished with authentic pot-bellied stove and other
    equipment of its day.]


The PIONEER AUTO MUSEUM opened in May of 1954 with 25 cars and a single
building. As time went on a collection of old farm machinery and
tractors blossomed in back. And as old original buildings such as jails,
schools, churches, banks and many others were doomed to replacement in
the community, Mr. Geisler added yet another facet of olden day
preservation to the museum. China, toys, glassware, lamps, musical
antiquities and other things too numerous to mention here were added. So
many things, in fact, that many buildings such as the general store, the
church, and the school house are fully stocked and equipped with
authentic original trappings. Today the museum boasts 25 buildings with
over 200 vehicles plus thousands of other memorabilia. Because of Mr.
Geisler’s fondness for Ford automobiles, a special building in the
museum, Henry’s Ford Garage, contains only Fords. In 1956 Mr. Geisler
sold the Chevrolet-John Deere Agency and purchased the Ford Agency in
Murdo, which is managed by another son, Dave.

PIONEER AUTO MUSEUM is more than a mere tourist attraction. It is a
tribute to a man and woman and their family who have had the foresight
to preserve the past. The thousands of items to be seen in a fine state
of preservation would have doubtless been lost to the dumps and junk
piles. Instead posterity can visit and maybe “live a little” in the days
of their forefathers in authentic surroundings.

Visit with Dick and John. They will be happy to give you interesting and
expert information on anything in the PIONEER AUTO MUSEUM. They might
even relate a few of the interesting and amusing tales of how the cars
were found and moved from over 40 states to the PIONEER AUTO MUSEUM in
Murdo, South Dakota.

    [Illustration: 1931 Packard Touring Car

    This rare classic was the personal pride of its original owner, Tom
    Mix, hard-riding cowboy of movie fame. The classic features of this
    phaeton included wire wheels, side-mounted twin spares topped by
    rear-view mirrors, dual windshields and dual cowls.]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.